[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Drew bagnell.
I'm the chief technology
officer at Aurora Innovation.
I'm going to talk to you a little bit
today about self-driving, robotics and
model-based reinforcement learning.
You know, we're really in the beginning of
a revolution in robotics from manipulation
to drones to self-driving.
These techniques are in general
deeply dependent on machine learning.
For instance within the use of perception,
we've had no credible story for
how to do perception without machine
learning for nearly two decades now.
What I'm showing in the video you're
seeing is a autonomous vehicle,
an Aurora autonomous vehicle,
driving along in a scene of typical
complexity for an urban environment.
In blue you're seeing a machine learning
based perception system detect and
understand the motion of parked and
moving vehicles.
In gold, cyclists sharing the road and
in red, dense crowds of pedestrians.
It's important to these applications to
achieve extreme accuracy in all weather
and occlusion.
What's been interesting over the last say
decade is the increase of importance of
using machine learning in
the decision-making process.
Decision making is very
complex in urban environments.
I'm showing here for
instance an autonomous vehicle finding
a gap in a dense flow of pedestrians.
What makes this difficult is
the importance of context and
other actors in the scene.
And it turns out to be very difficult
to build and hand-tune rules for
problems like the one
being demonstrated here or
even things as simple as a stop sign or
a merge.
You'll note in these examples that I'm
talking about in robotics that they all
rely on continuous states and actions.
I'm showing here a spectacular example of
model-based reinforcement learning applied
to acrobatic autonomous
helicopter control.
In this work by Pieter Abbeel and his
colleagues, they demonstrated they could
use model-based reinforcement learning
techniques on the continuous states and
actions, the positions, velocities and
controls of a model helicopter and
make it perform exceptional acrobatics.
The key to making such techniques
practical is the use of continuous state
and action models of
the helicopter dynamics.
So models, what do I mean by models?
By model, I mean a transition function or
dynamics,
a function that maps the current state and
action to the next state as well
as a function that can evaluate the cost
at a particular state in action.
A dirty secret in the field is that
practically all robot learning
problems that involve decisions
are in some way model-based.
And you might ask why is this true?
Well, fundamentally
interactions between for
instance robots in the world
are expensive and time-consuming.
And it's often said that it's say
better to die in simulation than
it is in the real world.
The way to formalize this intuition
is to talk about sample complexity.
How many interactions with the world
are required to achieve high performance.
And what we've learned
both practically and
very recently theoretically is
it can take exponentially fewer
interactions to learn with a model
than it does to learn without.
Okay, what I'm going to take you
through now is how we take advantage of
a continuous state and action model using
quadratic value function approximation.
Quadratic value function approximation
is a powerful technique for
model-based reinforcement learning that
goes back to optimal control in the 1960s.
This class of techniques was the one used
in the spectacular helicopter acrobatics
you saw above.
And it's widely used in creating
trajectories from drones to medical robots
to manipulators to self-driving vehicles.
And this quadratic form approximation
of a value function again,
continuous in state and actions,
is particularly elegant for a few reasons.
One for a simple class of systems,
notably ones whose dynamics are linear and
costs are quadratic, this quandrant
value function approximation is exact.
It's not an approximation.
For other problems where the action value
function is convex or locally convex and
the continuous states are actions,
it turns out to be an excellent
local approximation of the true
action value function.
And the key here is that given this
approximation we can rapidly compute
the optimal policy in closed form
even with continuous actions.
Okay, so it's an interesting
exercise to go through and
actually try to compute
what the optimal policy is.
It's worth doing this by hand for
a single scalar variable X and
state and for
single scalar control or action A.
If you're familiar with matrix calculus,
this is a very quick computation.
But if you're not it's worth struggling
for a while to understand how it works.
The nice part is once you
compute this optimal policy,
you can plug it back in to
the action value function and
extract the optimal value function V and
it'll turn out to be quadratic as well.
The general family of techniques
that take advantage of this
are known as differential
dynamic programming.
Once you have gone through the exercise we
described above you can pull it together
with the techniques you've already
learned in dynamic programming or
in using the Bellman equation and compute
an optimum policy for all time steps.
And the idea is we go backwards in time
in the standard dynamic programming form.
We computed every time step
series particularly Taylor series
approximation of the model and the known
cost function up to first or second order.
Then we use the Bellman equation to back
up a quadratic approximation of the action
value function given a quadratic
approximation of the future value and
the quadratic approximations we
just computed of model and cost.
Then we use the exercise we did above
to compute the optimal policy and thus
the optimal value at time step T minus 1
and this gets iterated backwards in time.
Now, it's very common and
in fact using the approach we described
above to then go back and refine
the Taylor series approximation by taking
advantage of the new policy we have.
Think about this as giving us a new
point to linearize the model above.
Okay, there's lots of details to both the
algebra and to getting this to work and
fortunately there's lots of great
resources online that you can take
advantage of to learn more
about these techniques.
Here you can find my notes on
the techniques I applied that we discussed
above as well as Katerina Fragkiadaki's
lectures on the same.
I'll also note that Yuval Tassa's paper
on online trajectory optimization is
particularly clear and
easy to work through for
this approach that I just described.
Okay, now that we have a technique that
can take advantage of a continuous state
and action model and learn about a policy
which may be optimal or near optimal,
we'll discuss next how to build models so
we can solve RL problems.
Thank you for your attention.